Bartholomew talks for the Quest group about the purpose or meaning of life.
Yes.
Well, first I'd like to...
I feel that the difficulty in answering a question of this nature
in a particular group situation is that various ones will be seeking different answers,
but I would like to say that I will give the answer
in the highest degree that I perceive,
and those that can hear will hear,
and those that cannot will someday also come to hear.
The question that our side of the light would like to impress
upon all of the human consciousness
is simply that the purpose of life is not at all what your perception would tell you it was.
From your human perception, looking out through the eyes, physical eyes,
you perceive life and its importance as being bound up in family,
work, love in the personal sense, in the children's sense, in the mate's sense, or in love of
parents, or love of country, or love of good work, or however it manifests to you.
Now while no one on this side of the light would say that these are wrong motives, they
they would say that as long as you believe this illusion, you will not be able to fully
participate in the broad ongoing teaching that the planet provides for you.
What is meant by this is simply that your eyes lie to you.
You are using, most of you, are using the wrong vehicle to see with.
The vehicle that you are called upon to see with is an inner vehicle that has no form
of what you are aware.
It is made up of spirals of energy fields which we will not go into because when your eyes,
when your inner eyes are developed enough to see them then you will know within your own
mind what you are perceiving.
But just let me say that when these inner eyes open you will then perceive the world totally
differently from the way you do now.
In that new perception, you will become one with all of the great truths that the greatest
of the teachers have passed down to you.
You say, all of you, or some of you, you say countless times, "All is one.
There is only one reality."
But if you are being honest, and if you will look carefully at your mind, you will observe
that your thoughts deny that you truly believe it.
You act constantly in opposition to this basic idea.
Indeed, you act not only as if you were separate,
but as if your mind is separate from other minds.
It is bad enough to think that your body is separate from other bodies,
but on top of this illusion you compound it by feeling that your mind is somehow a separate
entity from the rest of the mind in the world.
We would like to say that this is an illusion created by the ego for its own use and if
you choose to continue, that's fine.
This is a matter of choice.
There are certain delights to be found in seeing oneself as separate.
Some of these delights are obvious.
For example, if you happen to be in a fulfilling personal relationship, then you see the obvious
delight of feeling a one-to-one love.
On the other hand, it must be seen clearly that if you move from a fulfilling relationship
to areas of that relationship that are not fulfilling, then watch carefully what your
mind does, because your mind then says, "Ah, it is simply this particular relationship that
has gone sour, so now I will go out and find another personal relationship that will then
be meaningful to you. And so it goes. Time after time, life after life, relationship
after relationship, one forgets and puts aside the pain and the suffering and forgets that
the purpose of life is to understand that you are not an ego. It is as simple as that.
The purpose of everyone in this room is to come to the awareness that you are not now
and have never been an ego.
I am very aware of having been incarnate for myself.
I am very aware of the tremendous pull of the illusion.
But having moved out of that illusion, I have come to tell you that it can be done.
And if you are still caught in the illusion, rest assured it is because it is giving you
something that you deeply want.
So don't beat your chest and cry to the gods and say, "You are not fulfilling me.
You are not showing me the way."
The way is always there.
But most of you, if you would be honest, would see that you are very content on some deep
level with what you are doing.
It feeds you in some way.
It makes you feel important.
And you see, if all is one, then no one is any more important than anyone else.
And this is something that the ego refuses to see.
The ego maintains its power over you by promising you a special state.
You are special if you are a separate ego.
If you are not a separate ego, you see, then where is the specialness?
Where does your specialness lie?
It doesn't exist.
And that is something that the ego screams at.
So please be very aware that you get precisely what you want, that what your life is now
is what you choose it to be, that the instant that you choose differently, doorways will
open.
We cannot tell you which doorway because when the time comes, the combination of energies
will be there for you and you will begin to experience something else.
a way will open but nothing can be done on our side until you ask and I don't mean a
superficial kind of a whimpering but a real soul call any true soul call is always answered
and answered instantaneously so I realize that many on the so-called spiritual path tend
to feel that they are in some way special from the rest of mankind.
This is a misuse of the spiritual quest.
Anything that makes you feel any way different from every other man is a misuse because there
is no real difference.
that we tend to use these devices when one is in a body.
We use these devices to separate ourselves.
And I would ask you all to be extremely careful about this.
Some of you are in marriage relationships or in non-married but close relationships with mates.
And herein lies one of the greatest misuses of the spiritual quest, which is the insidious
feeling that you emanate to your mate that make them feel less.
And I would like to say that things are not always as they seem.
For example, the long-suffering mate who continually stays home and takes care of the family so
that the other party can go out to meetings, it is questionable, you see, who is really
the more caring and the more dedicated.
So be very careful in all of your thought processes as you go through these pathways that you
don't take on the really deadly habit of thinking yourself exalted because you have some glimmering
of a spiritual truth.
More on purpose with
special attention to the life beyond the physical plane.
Can you express anything regarding the overall purpose
further than what you already said.
I think that several members of the group are
interested in
what happens beyond the event that you called out.
And there's much written about this place.
Most of it is erroneous,
because in order to speak these things,
words have to be used, symbols have to be called on
that really do not exist in a parallel fashion on the other side.
So much of it is filtered and very foggy,
and therefore misleading.
I think it is fair assumption that most people,
unless they are highly developed, highly aware,
have an underlying fear of death and the whole process
and the other, waking on the other side, as they call it.
So with that in mind, I will do my best, but again one has to understand that the symbols
given are going to be misrepresented by the woman because she simply doesn't have the ability
to translate these things for you.
Let me just say that the moment of transition varies greatly with the person going off.
And the degree of fear is measured with the, what shall I call it, the disorientation that
is experienced.
Some humans pass over with absolutely no change of perception, but they're very rare.
Now the main thing that you have to keep in mind is that when you move over to the other
side, your consciousness does not explode into a tremendous difference than it was on this
side, because you see there really is no other end here.
It's all the same.
But in order to make any sense at all, we speak in these terms.
But when the transition is being made, the general tendency of the human is to concentrate
on the body form as long as it can.
It is deeply suggested that those of you who can free yourself of that and keep your awareness
of your consciousness as your primary function at that time, that will be a tremendous help
to you. Because you see, there is only fear in the body sense, there is no fear in the
consciousness sense, because the consciousness does not change. There is no alteration in
your consciousness when you die. So if you want to keep the flow of continuity as much
as you can and do your best to learn about this process as you're going, then the suggestion
is to really let the body take care of itself and do whatever it is destined to do and keep
your awareness highly concentrated, as power-packed as you can in your consciousness.
Now, on the other side, it will differ.
It is really difficult to make any statement about this type of thing.
It is fair to say that what you envision it will be like, so will it be for a limited
period of time.
Because one of the great things that you will learn is that the mind creates.
And as you are creating this type of a reality on the other side, you will realize that this
This is what's happening, that your mind is creating something.
But be that as it may, there isn't too much to say.
It'll all be taken care of.
That is the primary thing that I think is of importance to all humans.
It's to get a really deep feeling and knowledge within that just as you are sustained by the
divine force while you're in body form, you are sustained by the divine force when you
are not.
So the degree to which all the people in this room spend the rest of their life here, creating
this very definite, concrete almost, awareness of their oneness with the divine force that
is pulsating through them constantly, the less fear there will be, the less change there
will be the greater the greater expanding and and experience the greater the experience
will be on the other side and by that I mean it will not be as limited.
Someone who goes over with limitations as to who they are will experience those limitations
to some degree on the other side.
But the ones who have really worked at feeling the tremendous harmony that sings through their
being here now in body form, we'll find that it is a continuing process and that it isn't
even so much even going as they say from one room to another, even that is too much of a
limitation.
What does free them so much is the dropping of all of the physical which is a tremendous
And this is what they experience as such a lightening.
Because the physical vehicle, it can be very cumbersome.
Yes.
Would you ask a question?
Yes. What can you suggest the best way for parents to help their children?
Well, I'll make it a little more concise this time, but basically I would like to suggest
to everyone who is a parent or is thinking of becoming a parent that their primary consideration
must be to, if they wish to be truly successful in this, in the rearing of children who will
be in harmony and who will have a joyful relationship to life, that the thing that they really must
do if they find it in themselves to do, is to develop this day and the next day and all
days, henceforward, an actual living relationship with the wisdom that is available in the moment.
Now, this is a very specific thing and not something vague.
Most of parents, when they find that they are going to become a parent or if the child is
already born or if some difficulty looms ahead,
they rush around and they read books on so-called experts.
And the data that they receive seems to them to be helpful in some degree or other.
But if they were paying attention, they would realize that there is no particular way,
in an overall sense, of knowing how to respond to each instance' problem.
Now there is a way, you see, you are not alone.
None of you have been left alone here to battle your way
to awareness alone of what's right for you.
I mean, that would be a very unfortunate, chaotic kind of universe
that you were thinking of.
But the fact remains that most of you enjoy this separate feeling
as we've talked about before.
You enjoy a sense of being a separate entity
and you enjoy the power of making your own decisions.
And as long as that is what you want, then by all means, continue to make your own decisions
to decide every detail down to the last as to what you should do for your child.
But for those of you who have come to the understanding through watching your own life, that perhaps
you have made some mistakes, that perhaps things could have been handled in a better way.
Now if you are one of those, this is for you.
If you really have come to this understanding, and if you are really in enough love state
with the child to truly wish to serve that child the best you can, then I say to you
the best thing you can do is to develop your tuning device so that the wisdom that is pulsating
around you constantly will be able to record itself in you and therefore you will know
what to do.
You see, it is not a mystery.
There are no mysteries here.
Man beats his breath and screams to the sky and says, "I don't know what to do."
Well, that's because his mind has not been able to think of an answer.
But rest assured the answer is there.
And for parents, we are particularly concerned with the raising of children in this age and
the next few ages to come, because a lot depends on that, which is another subject.
But a lot depends on what happens to these next few generations.
And so any of you who can hear, we would ask you to hear this.
In the moment when your mind is still and you are totally attuned to what is present in
In this moment, with no encumbrances of past thoughts, with no desire beaming at you, but
simply in the quiet of each moment, you will be able to speak the things that need to be
spoken.
You will be able to think the thought that should be thought, and you will perform what
the Buddhists would call a right action.
Now your mind is incapable of knowing what is right action for everyone in a certain
area.
At least I think that is true of all in this room.
There are some human beings of course who have transcended but basically the human condition
is one of having a very narrow awareness of what is the best thing to do.
So if you choose to be in love and harmony with the total plan and then know that all
will be served at the highest, it is a very simple matter.
You must learn to constantly stop your thought process, to place yourself totally, wholly,
receptively in the moment and listen.
You know, all the great books have said it and you don't hear it.
They say God speaks and you know, most people don't understand that.
They don't believe it.
And the reason that they cannot experience the voice of God or the voice within or however
you choose to say it, the reason they cannot experience it is because they're too busy
talking.
Now, by this I mean mental talking in the form of thinking, mental fantasies, hopes, fears,
past, future.
All of these things tend to fill you to such an extent with your own material that God
simply cannot get through.
There is no one in a body that cannot, if they seek it, hear the voice of God.
No one.
And if you doubt me, then I will give you a challenge.
Spend the rest of your life trying, and when you cross over the other side, tell me.
I'll be there.
Are you ready for questions?
I am.
Well, the first question Wilma has,
she wonders whether you can tell her a little bit more about your relationship with her.
Well, it's a very healthy time.
I've been waiting and hoping that something of this nature would come up because one of
the things that I've been concerned about was her lack of inquisitiveness about me and my
relationship to her.
In the past, the questions have come from you.
that you have raised, if I'm remembering correctly.
And she had asked on her own.
I consider this a healthy question because it means that she is accepting me in a way
that I think she has had difficulty doing in the past.
So I'm glad to speak to them about this relationship.
what I think she needs to know, and the question that is foremost in her mind is, I think in
her terminology would be, "Am I her friend?"
And of course, this is a very true statement.
I've been her friend for a long time.
It is also true that I am her teacher, but the thing that she is beginning to sense is
the thing that is closest to the truth, I think, which is that until such time as she can stand
in relationship with the divine, I stand closer to her and therefore serve as a channel for
her.
So in a sense I am just a vehicle at her disposal and I think it would be helpful for her to
look at it this way.
Her big concern of course, as should be, is the concern of being taken over to such an
extent that there would be no feeling of her own self in this process.
But I think that the more she realizes that this is just simply a...
As I'm a channel, she is a channel.
And that it all comes from the one source.
So if you could tell her that, I think she'd feel better about the whole experience that
she's undergoing.
Because she has had a very hard time with it.
But as we've said before, this is very healthy.
We would be very, very unhappy if she was terribly taken over with it, terribly obsessed with
it and this would indicate a tremendous degree of ego involvement which would be a trouble
for us.
But this isn't true in her case and I think it's healthy and in no way do I wish to discourage
her checking out of the data, her keeping alert to what is true that I speak and what
is not true.
She needs to do this and I think it's healthy.
So if you tell her that's fine.
Thank you.
And I might ask, do you experience yourself in a form,
does your consciousness take on a form that seems separate as ours does on our plane?
Well, what really is, this is difficult to say,
but what it is is very compact.
If you could see me, if this is the question, if you could see me, if I could materialize
myself for you, I would be a very compact energy unit, you see.
I would be very, very compact and I wouldn't look to you perhaps like a form because you're
used to a very different form, but I would be very, very compact, very liquid, very movable.
I don't hold to any particular form at any time, because thought changes that form instantaneously,
and so therefore, if I have a thought of one thing, I can move into that form.
Do you understand?
I think so.
It's a very fluid area.
We're told that consciousness always has to have a form through which it can manifest or
express.
Well, this is very true.
This is very true.
I mean, when you speak in terms of the One, or the vast void, or whatever, that, of course,
the both are true, because once you have placed yourself in total relationship with the Divine,
once you, if I may use the word, merge yourself into that, then your consciousness can move
into infinite realms and change its form, you see.
It's interesting that the myths that your culture, not particularly the United States
culture, but the Earth cultures have created, some of the fantasy stories are about people
that transform from one shape to another, you use it from toads to princes and so forth,
but actually this is a statement of fact, and on the higher realms it's tremendously
free and very creative to be able to change form.
And one of the tremendous health of it is that one doesn't become attached in any way, you
see, as perhaps the physical vehicle doesn't lend into this because it seems so stable,
you know, so ongoing.
Does this answer your question?
No, thank you.
Comments on being more open to guidance from higher forces?
No, I think that they're continuing on.
Now, of course, all of the data that was given in the last two days,
I'm sure you both heard it and you both understood instantly the thrust of the moment.
And as with every other being who has not reached the final state of total awareness, we do
always recommend this.
Both of you do it in varying degrees of efficiency at varying times of the year, at varying times
of the day, and so forth.
But this is very normal with fluctuation.
But by all means, if you would like to make any change at all, or not even a change, a
continuous, I would suggest a much more hopefully consistent remembrance of the moment and to
place yourself in the power of that moment.
I can use the word power with you both because it is not something that you would misuse.
This is not a word I would recommend you to use to your root.
Power is a very loaded word in your environment.
The mower itself has the power, not we.
That's exactly right, sir, and that's why we can use it with you.
But to other people, they translate it as something that they possess.
And this makes for great misuse.
Another question is how do any of us best discover what jobs we should be in?
What kind of work we should be doing, what particular job I suppose?
I think this is one of the, as I observe human life,
I would say this is one of the major questions that humans have,
and very few of them think to ask about it.
So I'm very pleased that this was raised,
because there are a few things that can be said.
Now, the first and foremost, I think,
there must be an understanding within the person
that often time a job that they have, they look on it as something God has given them to do.
Let us take an example of a clerk in a Safeway store.
Now, many people, say this person is on the so-called spiritual path,
they would tend to look on that job as something God has given them, you see,
and therefore they stay in it and so on.
Now, this is a great misconception, because often times, you see, what the higher forces
want above all is for you to move with creative joy.
This is one of their main aims.
And one of the things that best helps a person in the body to have joy and creative awareness
is to having a so-called job that they enjoy doing.
So, I would say to someone who is in a job they really don't like,
I mean, not just a marginal, if you understand,
but someone who is totally unhappy in this job,
the chances are, no, that they have placed themselves there on their own limitations.
And if they would begin to look within themselves and ask,
you know, again, we come back to the same thing.
Most people in job situations are there because they are either comfortable or they are convenient
or they are afraid of any further expansion for fear they won't be able to handle the
new responsibilities.
You see, there are many reasons.
A fear of a decrease in income or a loss of prestige to take a job, a lesser job will
destroy their prestige.
You see, these are all ego questions, ego attributes.
And so the first thing that should be done is a very serious consideration, as deeply as they can,
"Why am I here? Is it because I am afraid?" and so on.
You know, considering all these possibilities and to look deeply at these questions,
these questions, not asking other people because other people can't answer them.
If a woman has a prestige problem and would prefer to be in a poorly paid
prestige position, she's getting what she wants, you see. Now when the paycheck
arrives, then she's unhappy, but most of the time she's pleased because her
biggest desire is to be in a prestige situation. All right, so that's one type
I hope I've covered that sufficiently.
But the first job is to look critically, to remove the veil from the real situation, your
own motivation, why you're doing what you're doing.
If you find at the core of it that you really, the reasons that you're there are very superficial,
arrogant, or fearful, or egotistic, or whatever, then you're open to go to the second stage.
Now the second stage is then you say, "Well, what?
What in all this world would I want to do?
There's so many opportunities, there's so many choices."
Well, that's really not true.
If they would look at their environment, they will see that they have certain limitations
that they must work in.
They have a certain amount of money they must pull in.
They have a certain ability.
You know, you cannot be a president of a corporation if you've never had any background.
God is not interested in placing everybody in corporate positions.
You see, that is not one of the...
You see, they keep placing on God functions that are not His, that He never wanted,
and has nothing to do with, you see, in a real sense.
You get what you want.
Believe me, the same law applies to all of the things that we've discussed.
And it equally applies with your relationships, and it applies with your job,
It applies in all these things.
You're getting something that you want in any situation that you're in.
So, if you discover after the self-analysis,
or these people do, it doesn't really apply to you too,
but certainly to the speaker it applies to her, and to anyone else.
If you really deeply look at the situation
and realize that the motives are not very exalted
and you wish to move on,
Then the second phase is simply a constant paying attention to a movement within your life.
Now, often times, the committee as you call them, the forces as I would call them,
place before you like a carrot before the nose of a donkey, an opportunity.
This can come in the form of something they read in the paper.
the paper. I mean, we use the physical medium, you see, to teach. All of the things don't
have to come through beautiful astral nodes, sub-harmony. No. I mean, we use what is there.
And so we use newspapers. We use other people. You know, we use the radio, the television.
And if they have made up their mind that they want to make a change. Now, they don't run
out, quit the job, and sit around and wait for the committee to give them a new job, you
But what they do is they've made up their mind that this is what their motives are wrong.
They make the best of what they're in, you see, they don't drop everything and move on.
They make the best of what they're in, and then they keep all of their antenna out in listening.
They listen within, and they listen without.
They listen to people, they talk, in other words, they've decided to make a change.
Now the question remains, what are they going to move into?
Often times a word, a neighbor said something, you know what I'm saying?
The committee places these there for you, but if you were so busy just berating and moaning and groaning
and never really being willing to make the move, then you'll never hear it.
So that's the second suggestion.
And then the third one is to, when you feel something is right, have the courage to try it.
Have the courage to try it, you know?
Make an intelligent decision.
You know, we are not really in favor of people leaping out of one job into another.
This is usually a great waste of energy.
But something that is considered and feels right, they will develop in their watching, you see.
It all works as a whole.
Their whole life.
The person who will do this, what I've just described,
The person who is likely to respond to what we are talking about now is also the person
who will have response to the other data and will be in the moment with a listening antenna
out anyway.
So they will be a test before and as they become, you see it's a matter of being confident.
Now this is something that the divine force would like to really make clear that we are
We are aware that this is a confidence, you would call it faith perhaps, we call it confidence.
Confidence that the divine really does speak to different events and you can trust it.
And if they are living in the moment and paying attention, which is very high to get their attention,
if they're paying attention, they will soon begin to hear things.
I don't mean in mystical words, I'm speaking a very literal translation.
is true, that they can also hear higher voices, yes, and they will do so as they move along.
But let's just take the beginning stages here.
Of the person who integrates their whole life around the idea that there is a higher wisdom
that can help them, that they are willing and lovingly going to surrender and submit
to and to turn their life over to it, what that means is very simply when they say, "What
do you mean?"
I know that people have asked questions often about surrender and what this means.
And she had tremendous trouble with it when she was in a relationship with Bonnie Joseph's kid.
Tremendous trouble with it was surrender, what did this mean?
So I think this is a good time to speak to this point so that she can better understand.
I think maybe it will help in a way.
I have no idea what Mr. Doe can know himself.
I can only tell you that from our perspective, what surrender means is, first, coming to
the understanding that you yourself as a human entity with a limited mind and limited understanding,
that you are not capable of making the best possible choice.
Two, having made this understanding very clear to yourself, being willing to call on a source
outside and within, you think of it as outside, absolutely, very much within yourself.
Something to call on a higher force to aid you.
Now, when step number two is called upon,
most of you do not believe this, and we understand that.
So, where people get confused is they think that they can't move into stage two
because they don't have sufficient faith, you see, that the process will work.
And we say, don't worry about that.
What we want is just as much cooperation,
whatever little bits you can do, do.
And we will fill in the gap.
You see, it doesn't take a whole lot of moving on your part
to activate the energy on our part,
but we cannot make one move without your help.
We cannot do anything until you call.
Now, this is not, this is the slightest call
for you to respond.
So I think this is an important point, that faith, this word faith, is built by observing
that it works, that the process that you have just begun is working, you see?
That then you say, "Ah, it works!
I called on the force, I called on the power, and it happened."
Look, it happened.
And if you're keeping this in your awareness constantly, I think it's very helpful.
It gives you faith that it would, and that's all it meant.
So, that's all I have.
Thank you.
Another question.
Are all events in your life God-sent,
or does that only happen when one has surrendered?
Well, that too is a good question,
and it's a question I really don't really understand.
Unfortunately, I'm afraid that a lot of people have very strange ideas about this.
Um, alright.
First of all, nothing happens outside of God.
Alright?
Because there is nothing outside of God.
The place where it could be stated, which is, these are bad words,
but where it could be stated that you and God separate,
is when you make that conscious choice to choose with the mechanism of your limited awareness.
Now this is your life. This is where your free will comes in.
You may choose to activate a life force, to activate a choice,
without at all worrying about whether it is in harmony with the doubt.
So people always say how Hitler, if Hitler and God, if God is motivating Hitler and all
of the situation in Germany etc. well then what kind of a God is he?
Well the answer is simply that is not God.
It happens within God, yes.
But it is not a will of God because when God, and this is cosmological and I hope it fits
and what you're interested in, if not, is something you'll feel.
But when the first creative impulse was with God
in the form of what you would call a human consciousness,
the consciousness made it, out of its creation, it made its choice.
Let us call it an experiment, if you will.
This was not an experiment on God's part.
It was a segment on the differentiated separated grill.
And this is what happens now.
[ Silence ]
[Silence]
Continuing from the other side now.
It made its course.
Let us call it an experiment, if you will.
This was not an experiment on God's part. It was an experiment on this differentiated, separated will.
And this is what happens. Now, you have tremendous trouble understanding this because it seems to you, what kind of a God is it?
I mean, this is why people have trouble turning to God, because they think in terms of Hitler and the tremendous chaos, etc. etc.
I would like to state on behalf of the highest that I have experienced that this is not the truth
and if you would only learn this one lesson that you have decided, you have been given this
indivisible creative power and this is how you have chosen to use it.
Once you change your mind, any one of you, to the slightest degree and say,
I think that I have created a devil.
Look at what I've created.
I choose differently.
I don't want any part of this anymore.
Help me.
Then an actual movement moves into your mind and slowly and you see it is not really instantaneous
except for a very exalted few, you see, who are very ready.
But they're not likely to be in the building that we're talking about either.
So for most people it is a slow process of moving, inundating slowly, slowly, slowly,
slowly into the mind and making changes, a slight change here, a slight change there,
so forth.
Do you understand?
Now, it is so sad that the great churches try so hard to reconcile the God and the devil
and so forth.
It is very simple and I hope I made it clear to you.
It's very hard to put these things in.
It's a choice of a so-called separated consciousness.
That's exactly right. Now that consciousness at any time can say,
"I don't want this. I want to go back to the source. That's where I want."
Now he doesn't have to go anywhere because he's never left it, you see.
So it's merely a movement of going nowhere.
A journey that you don't move at all.
But at the same time, you see, just as you were given,
The Father has will, the Divine has will, you have will.
Very simple. If you had no will, then you were not like the Father at all.
You see, because you would have no will.
The problem comes that we have watched this drama of humans
acting out of their own separate wills
and completely turning, literally turning their minds away
from the will of life, which is the will of God and harmony in the world.
So once one decides I don't like what I have created because you have created it
Then you simply choose something different the minute you say I don't know you know
Speaking not to another human, but to the vast wisdom, you know, please help
Then you can say with great certainty
Everything happens by God's will
Until that time that is not a statement
It happens by your
May I?
Isn't this exactly what you're saying, as I understand it?
Isn't this exactly what we had in the stories of the Prodigal Son?
Oh, yes!
He was never apart from his father. He was always his father's son.
But his will turned him away from his father so that he forgot it.
And as soon as he turned back and said, "In my father's house is everything. I will to go back in his father's kingdom."
Precise.
Thank you.
There's no other meaning.
And you notice in that story, it's the resentment of the brother that stays home.
Yes.
Right.
Now that's really 3.2 because so many people, that brother was just as separated in his own
mind from his father as was the one.
Yes.
Love you.
Thank you.
Next question is can we be influenced by negative forces or evil forces?
Well, first of all, there is no organized evil. There is no devil. There is no such thing at all.
That is my theory.
Well, your theory is right because you see, all of those are separate.
Now what is true is that there are entities or thought forms or clusters of thought forms
which have a very negative outlook
generated through various conditions that we won't go into.
Now these exist both on the earth plane and the mental plane if you will,
and there's every human.
But this is really not the terrible demon that the humans make it into.
And what really happens is, let us take, as happens often,
let us take a human entity who has her heart sing silently without telling anyone,
having some kind of a war within themselves between the dark and the light,
good thoughts and bad thoughts and you know a whole great big battle going on.
Alright, now at some time in this battle a conscious decision, and I repeat a conscious
decision is made to experiment with the energies of the dark, what we would call the dark.
And we'll call them.
Nothing can happen that you do not call on.
You see, the same law applies. It applies to the highest, it must apply to the lowest.
You must call it on. You must call it forth, or it will not enter.
And just as you cannot expect the God-force to move into you just in its own volition,
you must call it. By this same law, you must call on the forces of God for whatever reason.
Alright?
So, this is something that they often do as an experiment.
Now there is a tremendous attraction in some people for experiencing a dark vibration.
It pairs with this obsessive tone quality that is different.
Black magic to it.
Well, it's kind of a thing. It has a vibration to it that is very stimulating to the physical body.
You know, it's in her terminology, it's extremely general.
When a lot of her life is in the emotional.
Now, it is a conscious call.
The problem comes when they get in the middle of the stream,
they call these God forces in, they're with feeling of a vision,
of the body.
And then they start feeling their bodies getting destroyed, their minds getting very, very
chaotic, usually, which is a huge understatement.
And they are not always able to get out of the body.
chaotic, easily, which is a very strange thing.
And they are not always able,
and this is where the child is part of it, kind of,
they are not always able to then
have the awareness to call on the forces of life,
to come in and change it.
Because, you see, if the balance is overreached,
even to a slight degree, and the negative is so much,
is in larger proportion than the dog under the light,
then of course they're not going to leave.
They have feelings of their own, you see.
They're not some amorphous thing that has no feelings.
They have a movement of their own that they have established now, which is fine.
So what can happen, and what you would call exorcism,
Now what happens in this case is, if enough people or even one person of sufficient strength,
now power is important here, you see, sufficient power of the good, can somehow be willing
to participate in a real communion with this person.
I'm not speaking of a physical communion.
I'm really speaking of a mental hookup with this other person.
And they would then move their tremendously stronger proportion of the light, which then
is part of this other person's now, tremendous power of light.
And at that time, in the name of this other person and themselves, because they are one,
you know, we're not in separate things, this other person would then call on the light
and the life and movement and the beginning and the end of life.
So, it is a very difficult thing to do.
All of the great teachers do it constantly for their disciples,
and this is how their disciples feel so much better often in the presence of a really great master.
Because what he really is doing is moving his life into your dot, you see.
He's helping, you know, get the balance going and the opposite.
The problem is, of course, this cannot be done on a continual basis.
You cannot just... so, it's a conscious movement on his part,
and you can't keep that up continually.
So therefore, even if you have a quotation here on the earth,
and I think that's in...
um...
"Dream with a goal."
If you're in a physical presence, you tend to feel higher
than you do at other times, and that's fine.
Now, understand that this...
Let us go back to this first energy restriction that called on the dark forces.
The exorcist, or whoever this is, is doing this to heal the horses.
They cannot stay there, you know, they cannot continually keep in this state of communication.
So when they withdraw, now that person is back on his own free will again.
You see, you all really must make these choices for yourself.
No one can make these for you, otherwise free will would be a joke.
So, but, you see, the difference now is they have another, in terminology, another chance.
They have another chance to work with it.
This is why the way that the retainer works with it is so insane.
[Laughter]
Well, this would be a little, perhaps, like helping a child to learn to walk when he takes his hand and helps,
helping to get up, but he'll never learn to walk if you don't let him go.
That was different back to the African place.
It was that whole...
So it's even been more difficult, you know, for you,
of taking and putting your conscience,
because you are aware that there is a force there,
a dark force is there.
You're human beings, and you must be willing.
And that is why it's so foolish for people,
without sufficient light within themselves,
without sufficient understanding and power to enter into this kind of thing.
And we see it from our side constantly.
Very, very unprepared people are trying to move into this area
and what happens is that it's a trance, you see.
Example, let's go back to our first entity
who has a great deal of dark permeability,
which is a very slim opening of life.
Another person comes in and enters into this
who themselves doesn't have as much light as their ego would imagine.
Alright?
Now if those two move together
and if together the predominance is darker
then they are both in it.
They both have now shared the darkness.
You see?
And both love.
They both have too much.
So, I mean,
This is another tendency probably, but it is one of the things that concerns us a lot.
And the arrogance of certain so-called healers or so-called spiritual people who feel that
they can go into... you see, they half believe they can do it and they half don't, you see.
So they go in and they are able to work this situation.
It's pretty awesome.
I don't know if it's important by asking whether you consider yourself to be a part of someone's
deepest subconscious or whether you feel inceptive into this reality of unconsciousness.
Well, both answers are true.
In the sense that I am a part of her consciousness is that she and I and you and your wife and
indeed all of us are a part.
It is a oneness that we experience.
In your earthly terminology, we are, I am separate from her.
In the deepest movements of her being, we are one in the sense that she and I have shared
for eons of time a common goal.
I have been her teacher for so long that in her awareness, she is not separate from me,
Just as I, in turn, am not separate from my teacher, who is a part of me in a totally integrated way.
If you said that it's a matter of messing of vibrational waves, I would try to put this in terminology.
It is difficult to translate this type of thing, but I will try my best.
If you could envision, if you would, vast areas of light.
Now, just as the prism on Earth would take a white light and reflect it out in many colors,
So it is in the vast region that that intensive, all-encompassing white light is also broken
down into myriad colors.
Now as each one of those colors is broken off, there is a way of saying that those individual
colors are separate from the white light.
Do you understand?
Yes.
Now in that sense, I could say that if we would put myself as the white light, which I do
not identify with, I do not identify myself that way, but for this analogy, if I was in
the white light, then the woman herself would be one of the colors.
And in that sense, there are a lot of other colors that are closely related to her.
You and your wife are offshoots also of her particular way of life.
Do you understand?
All right, now, and just as I am a color to another vaster light.
You see, this is the way this vast, beautiful thing is expressed.
So, yes, in a sense, I am separate from her.
In a sense, I am totally one with her.
In another sense, she can never be apart from me.
In another sense, she is free to think of herself as apart from me.
If she chooses. This is a matter of her choice.
That's really about all I can say.
I can say these words, subconscious and so forth, really have no meaning.
Yeah.
Sorry, and so I can't really speak in those terms because that is not how I experience
it.
Yeah.
If I may ask you...
You know what, yes.
I may ask you to do this.
Have you had an earth experience in human form?
A long ago.
A long ago. It has been a long time.
And this is one of the reasons why I'm so anxious to work with this woman.
Because it won't be long before she won't have to worry about that either.
And in a sense, in a sense, these colored lights move together.
Again, my terminology may be difficult, but in a sense,
when all of the colors that represent that vast ray,
they will probably move at pretty much the same rate.
These are very bad words, because we're now speaking of things that don't exist,
time and movement, in a sense, but we could be able to put it this way.
All of the colors out of that particular prison, when they move, they will move in a certain
way.
And when their understanding is whole, when their understanding is whole, then they're
free to move on into another, into another state of experience.
And she's approaching that, as are you, as is your wife, as are the other people who
you perhaps sense are also part of your color scheme.
And I'm hopeful, I'm very hopeful that this can happen for all of you.
I'm certainly hopeful that it happens for this woman, too, because she's beginning to
And this is how we can tell. When they begin to sense that they don't feel the pull toward
this surface any longer, it's not a repulsion, please, I'm done. It's not a kind of pushing
away that we discussed. It is a dawning, I think is a very good word, a dawning of an
of an awareness that there is a much vaster world,
in close world, to experience.
And this is what she's working for.
Yes, I have to answer your question.
Yes, I have been on the Earth before.
I have actually been with you, so before not with your wife.
But your wife has a very close connection with someone who I am very closely connected with.
So in a sense, it's all one.
And it was many years ago, and if she knows, she has in fact experienced a part of that
life through one of the sessions, which was a session that I felt we were ready then to
really communicate.
communicate. If you recall, we had a session with her in which she was in a cave-like state
and we were speaking and she was speaking to one of the brothers. Now that was not myself
but it was at that particular time of her incarnated pattern that I was also in her life
therefore I could use that as the time, you understand, I could use that because the reference
point was there for me, so I believe that.
It's not the figure that's really speaking to me, but I was able to use that.
Yes.
Now, perhaps there's something for a question in Chicago.
We have been receiving rather intensively the question, "What can you do?"
sometimes, "Who am I?"
And, uh, could you give something on that line that would be helpful in your understanding?
Well, first, I think that both statements are valid and both statements are helpful.
To some, the question "Who am I?" is much more meaningful than "What am I?"
So I think a great deal of looseness in these terms is excellent, that you and your wife
both survive.
And I think that if you could give them the hardest part, the very hardest part, for the
humans who identify so strongly with the physical body, the hardest part of this learning process
and I'm going to get the sense of a not now.
Now, by that I mean,
they tend to think in terms of now as something very substantial and very concrete.
Now is now. It is the same.
Now, the "who am I?" question
is not to be addressed to that concreteness.
You see, the question, the image, perhaps, that might be helpful for some of them,
as they see this pool or this flat,
it is to present the question
and then allow no answer to arise at all.
No idea, no concrete thought,
Nothing it is that nothing that they it is done. This is so difficult. It is a nothing area that they must
Immerse themselves in and it is it can be some of those people in your group. It can be a real immersion
in fact interesting enough one of the early derivations of the
That presents one when one was baptized in and immersed in the river
in the water this is the this is a
man symbolic
yearning to
immerse himself totally in this in this flow of nothing
Then it becomes very important like a symbol, but if they can grasp that it is the vast
no place that is their home.
And the way that they can easily, I would feel,
so this particular group, is in their sitting time,
if they can search, a very strange way to put it,
to search for what isn't there,
to become very attentive and attuned
and tuning for feeling and listening for what isn't there.
They will understand that as they start working with it
because you see if something arises well they'll say
well this is here it's not that and so it becomes a nothingness
not this not this and this and this.
But eventually when they become accustomed to this
they will very easily be able to then as they're walking
or driving or sitting or whatever they will be able to
fall into the nowhere.
And as they become more accustomed to that,
they will be much more able to do it
in the various movements of their lifestyle.
And if I may just start with you.
I'll just...
I begin, of course, with a very warm,
warm welcome to them all.
And, um,
so you didn't need to really tell us that you had a group
because we have been very aware of this for a long time
and have been doing from our side what we could.
Um, the situation, the difficulty with the group, of course,
is its fluctuating participation.
It is difficult for us on our side
to apply the necessary energies at the necessary time
that would help, say, one of the older,
not in terms of years, but in terms of time in the group,
some of those people have been with you a long time.
we have been trying to reach them with greater areas of awareness for quite some time.
The problem comes when we cannot always do that in a...
when the people are changing and new people are coming in
who often times have very deep understanding
but not necessarily in the same line that you've been developing.
Do you understand?
So you are always in a situation, you as the guide of this group, and of course your wife,
to, it is difficult to keep a flow going in a progressively deeper level of understanding,
which is how we best like to work in a group situation.
Now what are you to do, because this is the nature of this particular group?
There's nothing you can do and we are aware of this. We have been trying
to impress on various team members of the group. There are
seven team members who form the core
of the group and it is these seven members that we have been working on
deeper levels with in various ways, opening up other channels,
Opening up new avenues that they might explore some of which don't work out for them others
do so
Primarily the the group that you've been working with
Come together now. They are not necessarily aware of this connection these seven people
Could we have a cover?
That they're not necessarily aware of their interconnectedness
But we are and when they do come together
in the meditation time
If I may put it this way certain information is passed out among them
The the one thing that perhaps you might think about changing
Is so many of them are floating
on a very thin membrane
Between the deeper realms of
the world the deepest parts of their being and
the less
Enlightened parts of their being it is almost as if they're riding
on the skin of the sea
And they're seeking to break through that skin down into the depth and begin a serious depth
Maneuver, do you understand the imagery yet? Now your job sir if you
Really choose to continue it and it has always been your job and your wife's job
Is to help them to break that skin of the seed open now
The one thing that we might suggest that has not really been emphasized
enough perhaps from our perception
is
deeper
meditation for them because
Many of them live extremely busy lives and are trying to solve things on the exterior level
and their their real depth will not be touched until they break this membrane and
And it can be done, but they must apply the knife of meditation.
However they choose.
Now you have a very composite group, you know, they do many different things.
And that is fine. They should be encouraged to pursue in-depth meditation in whatever field they feel.
for example, one I feel very strongly,
one of you people would definitely benefit
by the book that this woman brought today for your wife to read.
One of your students will be drawn to that book
and should pursue that line.
Now, many of them are not drawn toward the Buddhist way of thinking.
that doesn't necessarily matter
you're referring to both the healthy and the unhealthy?
yes, yes, yes
one particularly will find it extremely helpful
others, peripherally, will find benefit perhaps
but there is one particular person
but in any case
the job is to
not to decide which one form of meditation is going to be used to break through
through but simply to begin a program of them finding out their own way. You see, lying
within them in an embryo state of all of these very, very beautiful people, really beautiful
bunch of people, lying so close to their heart is their own way, the way that will take them
to the light and if the thrust for the new year could be an in-depth awareness of coming to
find their own way, which will be intensely difficult because you see everyone will tend
to look perhaps to you and your wife, well how do they do it, but your way is not their
way sir and one of the group members for example I feel will find a very
independent almost what should we call far out way but it will be that person's
way and it could be it should be taken seriously if you could you and your
could somehow instigate an intensive search within for them to bring to their
conscious mind the symbols that are meaningful to them and meditate upon
these symbols. I'm being very specific sir because there are symbols, actual
visual symbols that lie within each person which is medicated upon will open
the door that stands behind the world that you know it. Now in one person's
case the cross will be the symbol I see it clearly. Now this is not true in the
other people's case but this person in order to have this symbol become
meaningful, you must discover it anew. It's a woman and she will find it on her own, you
see, and it will be just like, it will just be like finding the holy grail before your
eyes. It will be so meaningful and that symbol will flow with her day and night because you
see, once we come in contact with our own symbol, that one symbol that is all meaningful
to us, then our life begins to change. It takes on a totally different feeling. It becomes
full and creative and light and meaningful only because we've come in touch with that
symbol. Now, in some people's case, the symbol will be perhaps more nebulous. It will be
perhaps a symbol of compassion. Now that is a symbol. Compassion, sir, is really a symbol.
And when I say compassion to you, sir, it means one thing. When I say it to someone
in your group, it means something entirely different. That is the kind of thing that
one must think. When one says God, now to you that has one meaning. I assume, sir, if
If you say God to the people in your group, it means very many different things.
And as they come in contact with what does that say to me, not what does that think to me.
You understand?
It doesn't matter what their think is.
What matters is what does that bring up.
What is there that rises up that covers them in a feeling of security?
You see, so many of these people are not secure in the world,
but many of them have had extremely difficult lives,
a great deal of pain and sorrow and loss and confusion
and heartbreak.
You know, it's not-- because some of them are older,
you see, they have had time to be, shall we say, processed.
And this is a difficult thing.
And coming in contact with these symbols that align right under the skin of the sea that
we're speaking of, it will give them the feeling that they're seeking outside, which is really
never to be found.
It will give them the peace and the protection and that total relief, the total belief in
the light because as they take these symbols and make their whole life a meaningful remembrance
of the symbol, they will change. Everything will change. You know, the very things in
the room will begin to change for them. So this has happened to you, so you do know what
I speak, but I will repeat it for the sake of this tape because some of them maybe have
not explain this. In looking at a rose, for example, when one has moved into the flow
of one's own symbol, that rose is totally transformed. It becomes all of life. Life
itself in its totality is then revealed in that one rose. And this is the kind of thing
that we would wish for the people we know in this group. And so many of them are so
close to that and it's almost as if they need to just rip apart the skin and
allow themselves the glory of the light that is so close because so many
of them are so close. Oh my heart fills with love as I you know my mind
touches on the various members of your group and the capabilities are
unbounded, unbounded. It has nothing to do with their verbal abilities, because verbal
abilities have nothing to do with spiritual awareness. And so if you and your wife could
in any way help them in a rather definite form, so you're not very definite in your
form in this course, you see, you're very open and that is a beautiful thing. But in
perhaps just for the sake of these, say, six-month period if you would give it a try, to have
a course of action, of inward action to, you've read so many things, you've been in touch with
so much that you could do this, set a certain format that you think would be helpful. Perhaps
this new book that has come to you from...
from...
- I believe me.
- Yes.
If you could perhaps use that as a format.
I'm not giving that as the only example,
but some definite form
so that they will keep working on it,
have a way of gnawing at the bone,
if you will,
to pull aside the veil.
And the light will show itself
at different times for each of them in different ways but this would be a
tremendous help to them if you could give some thought to that. Yes I'd appreciate that.
If there are any other suggestions as to techniques as to how to go about it I'd appreciate that.
Well they must learn to write things down. So many of the humans find it a
boring tiresome thing but in the beginning stages there is necessary to
get it down on paper for example if you were to have a meditation session
assignment a very bad word I realize but if you could perhaps as an experiment
have an assignment you see if you give an assignment each week this gives a
cohesive movement to the group and even though someone new comes in the second
week, it won't matter because you see the people will have had a building process going on
and address a deep spiritual meaningful question for them to meditate upon that week.
For example, it comes to the heart that one could perhaps say, "What do you look on as
the most sacred of all the symbols that your mind can think of.
That will give them the opportunity of going through all week, how many symbols are there?
There are millions of symbols.
But you see, each one will be drawn automatically toward the one that is really meaningful to
them.
You will find that some of them will come to this awareness superficially, and they will
say, "Well, this is my symbol," and within two or three weeks it will dissipate, you
see, because their mind will have told them that this was a symbol to work with,
whereas actually it was something they had read, perhaps, you see, or they have a
friend or an uncle or someone who had gotten meaning out of a particular
symbol. It will not be their own, but that's all right. That's all right. The
process is one of uncovering. So, address this problem directly, perhaps. This is simply
suggesting. This directs a direct question. During this week, cast into your mind and
into your heart, because symbols are found in both places. The heart has its own symbol.
The mind has its own symbol. There are different symbols, you see, because they're different,
I hate to use these words. People become so trapped in them. There are certain levels,
a very bad choice of words, but if you will bear with me. There are certain symbols that relate to
the level of the heart. There are certain symbols that relate to the level of the mind, and there
are certain symbols that transcend both. But each will find their own place. So a beginning subject
of that, and then after they have perhaps gotten in touch with that, then the following week,
perhaps for those, some of them are very beautifully artistically inclined, visualizing on a paper
an actual drawing of it.
What we're trying to do, sir, is to bring it as a living...
(coughs)
Excuse me, I'm running a bit.
Please excuse this.
The woman would be very embarrassed if she knew.
We are trying to bring these symbols in as a living, creative, totally meaningful symbol of the all.
And it can be easily worked on this level.
And many of you people are very inclined toward this kind of thing, toward the drawing of it, the embellishing of it in any way.
Now, sir, this would not be meaningful to you.
This is not a way you would have selected.
but the particular people who are in your group
I think will respond to this
and the ones that don't wish to visualize it as in
on paper for example the ones that have a more abstract
symbol that comes to them that is no less valid
a symbol that is not terribly abstract is no less valid as I know you know
so you are a perfect person actually you and your wife
are perfect people to enjoin on this kind of a thing
because you don't have any of these very rigid ideas
of what will be acceptable and what will not
and let them go, let them find their way
and they will, some of them very quickly
some of them very quickly and it will become
if you will, a focus for their movement into the deeper states of meditation
I do feel, sir, that there are many of them who are very ready for some deep states of
meditation.
And you've read much on the subject.
And also, please be aware that we are constantly placing in your hands data that we hope you
will use.
You see, since you are an open channel, we are able to use you.
I hope you understand the meaning and the positive sense.
In the sense that we will give data to you through various written materials and so forth,
that we in turn hope you will incorporate in your group, which you do.
The one thing that we would ask is that there be perhaps less now of a mental discussion of things
of things and now move into the more difficult yet the more meaningful areas of bringing
out the deep symbology and deep light that lies in all of these people.
[silence]
[BLANK_AUDIO]
[ Silence ]